docs/technologies/django/database-docker-persistence.mdx, before:

---
title         : DB Docker Persistence
sidebar_label : Docker DB Persistence
---

# DB Docker Persistence

<SubHeading>How to execute Django in Docker with DB persistence</SubHeading>

Docker is a platform that allows developers to package and distribute applications with their dependencies into portable containers. 
Docker offers a powerful solution to simplify the development and deployment process. 

In this tutorial, we'll show you how to leverage Docker to execute your Django application with database persistence. By the end, you'll be equipped with the knowledge and tools to efficiently develop and deploy your Django projects using Docker.

## ✅ Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have `Docker` and `Docker Compose` installed on your system. 
Docker allows us to containerize our Django application, while Docker Compose helps manage multiple containers and their configurations. 

If you haven't installed Docker yet, you can find detailed installation instructions for your operating system on the [official Docker website](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

## ✅ Set up a Django project

> Coding Sample: https://github.com/app-generator/sample-django-docker-db-persistence

For this tutorial we will use the project provided above. If `git` isn't installed, run following command to install it.

```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

Then clone the project by running this command.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/app-generator/sample-django-docker-db-persistence
```

## ✅ Set up the Dockerfile

To containerize your Django application, you'll need a Dockerfile—a configuration file that defines the image's specifications. 
Our Dockerfile sets up a Python runtime environment, installs project dependencies, copies the code into the container, and configures the necessary port exposure. 

This ensures seamless execution of your Django application within a Docker container. Follow these steps:

1. Open your Django project and search a file called `Dockerfile` in your project's root directory.

2. If the `Dockerfile` doesn't exist, create one and add the following content, then save it.

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.9

# set environment variables
ENV PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE 1
ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED 1

WORKDIR /app

COPY requirements.txt .

# install python dependencies
RUN pip install --upgrade pip
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY . .
```

## ✅ Set up the Docker Compose

Docker Compose simplifies the management of multiple containers and their dependencies. 
In this step, we'll create a `docker-compose.yml` file to configure our Django application and the database. 

This will ensure that our database data persists even if the container is restarted.

1. Open `docker-compose.yml` file in your project's root directory.

2. If it doesn't exist, create one and add the following content.

```yml
version: '3.8'
services:
  appseed-app:
    container_name: appseed_app
    restart: always
    build: .
    networks:
      - db_network
      - web_network
    command: >
      sh -c "python manage.py makemigrations &&
            python manage.py migrate &&
            gunicorn --config gunicorn-cfg.py core.wsgi"
  nginx:
    container_name: nginx
    restart: always
    image: "nginx:latest"
    ports:
      - "5085:5085"
    volumes:
      - ./nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d
    networks:
      - web_network
    depends_on: 
      - appseed-app
networks:
  db_network:
    driver: bridge
  web_network:
    driver: bridge
```

3. Copy and paste the following content into the file.

   - **For PostgreSQL**

     ```yml
     services:
     ...
       db:
         image: postgres
         environment:
           POSTGRES_DB: ${DB_NAME}
           POSTGRES_USER: ${DB_USERNAME}
           POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASS}
         volumes:
           - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
         networks:
           - db_network
     ...
     volumes:
       postgres_data:
     ```

   - **For MySQL**

     ```yml
     services:
     ...
       db:
         image: mysql
         environment:
           MYSQL_DATABASE: ${DB_NAME}
           MYSQL_USER: ${DB_USERNAME}
           MYSQL_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASS}
           MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${DB_ROOT_PASS}
         volumes:
           - mysql_data:/var/lib/mysql
         networks:
           - db_network
     ...
     volumes:
       mysql_data:
     ```

   - **For SQLite**

     You need to add volume in the `appseed-app` service. The SQLite database will be stored as a file within the container.

     ```yml
     services:
       appseed-app:
         container_name: appseed_app
         restart: always
         build: .
         volumes:              # add these
           - ./data:/app/data  # lines
         networks:
           - db_network
           - web_network
     ```

4. Save the file. The complete `docker-compose.yml` file if you use PostgreSQL will look like this.

   ```yml
   version: '3.8'
   services:
     db:
       image: postgres
       environment:
         POSTGRES_DB: ${DB_NAME}
         POSTGRES_USER: ${DB_USERNAME}
         POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASS}
       volumes:
         - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
       networks:
         - db_network
     appseed-app:
       container_name: appseed_app
       restart: always
       build: .
       networks:
         - db_network
         - web_network
       command: >
         sh -c "python manage.py makemigrations &&
                python manage.py migrate &&
                gunicorn --config gunicorn-cfg.py core.wsgi"
     nginx:
       container_name: nginx
       restart: always
       image: "nginx:latest"
       ports:
         - "5085:5085"
       volumes:
         - ./nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d
       networks:
         - web_network
       depends_on: 
         - appseed-app
   networks:
     db_network:
       driver: bridge
     web_network:
       driver: bridge
   volumes:
     postgres_data:
   ```

## ✅ Configure Django settings

To establish a connection between Django and the database container, we need to modify the environment variable.

1. Copy the `env.sample` file to `.env`.

   ```
   cp env.sample .env
   ```

2. If you are using SQLite as your database, you can skip the next step. Leave the database configuration commented out.

3. Open `.env` file using a text editor.

4. Remove comment from database variables and fill it by following your database configuration.

   - For PostgreSQL:

     ```
     DB_ENGINE=postgresql
     DB_HOST=db
     DB_NAME=your_db_name
     DB_USERNAME=user_name
     DB_PASS=your_password
     DB_PORT=5432
     ```

   - For MySQL:

     ```
     DB_ENGINE=mysql
     DB_HOST=db
     DB_NAME=your_db_name
     DB_USERNAME=user_name
     DB_PASS=your_password
     DB_ROOT_PASS=your_root_password
     DB_PORT=3306
     ```

5. Fill out the other variables as needed, then save the file.

6. Open `requirements.txt` file using a text editor.

7. Uncomment the package following the database you used by deleting the `#` in front of it.

   - `psycopg2-binary`: for PostgreSQL
   - `mysqlclient`: for MySQL

### SQLite Settings

If you are using SQLite as your database, you need to update your project settings by following these steps:

1. Open the `core/settings.py` file in your project.

2. Search for the database config and replace with this following code.

   ```python
   if DB_ENGINE and DB_NAME and DB_USERNAME:
       DATABASES = { 
         'default': {
           'ENGINE'  : 'django.db.backends.' + DB_ENGINE, 
           'NAME'    : DB_NAME,
           'USER'    : DB_USERNAME,
           'PASSWORD': DB_PASS,
           'HOST'    : DB_HOST,
           'PORT'    : DB_PORT,
           }, 
       }
   else:
       DATABASES = {
           'default': {
               'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
               'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'data', 'db.sqlite3'), # <-- NEW
           }
       }
   ```

Replace the line `'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3')` with `'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'data', 'db.sqlite3')`. 
This ensures that the SQLite database file will be stored in a folder named `data` with the filename `db.sqlite3`.

## ✅ Build and run the containers

We'll build and run our Docker containers using the Docker Compose file we created. 
This will start the Django development server and connect it to the `PostgreSQL` database container.

1. In your terminal, navigate to your project's root directory.

   ```bash
   cd ~/your/django/project
   ```

2. Run the following command to build and start the containers.

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

3. Docker Compose will create and configure the containers based on the specifications in the Compose file.

## ✅ Visit the app in Browser 

Once the containers are running, open your web browser and visit [http://localhost:5085](http://localhost:5085). 
You should see your Django application running. However, if this is your first time running the application, you'll need to create a superuser to log in and access the admin interface.

Here's a `step-by-step` guide to creating a superuser inside Docker:

1. Open a terminal and enter your Django container by running the following command:

   ```bash
   docker exec -it appseed_app bash
   ```

2. Once inside the container's shell, run the following command.

   ```bash
   python manage.py createsuperuser
   ```

After providing the necessary details, the superuser will be created successfully. You can now use these credentials to log in to your Django application and access the admin interface

<br />

## ✅ Resources 

- 👉 Access [AppSeed](https://appseed.us/) and start fast your next project
- 👉 [Deploy Projects on Aws, Azure and Digital Ocean](https://www.docs.deploypro.dev/) via **DeployPRO**
- 👉 Create an amazing landing page with [Simpllo, an open-source site builder](https://www.simpllo.com/)
- 👉 [Django App Generator](https://app-generator.dev/django/) - A 2nd generation App Builder

Commit message:

Django & Docker, DB Persistence - Added IMG

docs/technologies/django/database-docker-persistence.mdx, after:

---
title         : DB Docker Persistence
sidebar_label : Docker DB Persistence
---

# DB Docker Persistence

<SubHeading>How to execute Django in Docker with DB persistence</SubHeading>

Docker is a platform that allows developers to package and distribute applications with their dependencies into portable containers. 
Docker offers a powerful solution to simplify the development and deployment process. 

In this tutorial, we'll show you how to leverage Docker to execute your Django application with database persistence. By the end, you'll be equipped with the knowledge and tools to efficiently develop and deploy your Django projects using Docker.

![Docker DB Persistence - How to implement for a Django Project](https://github.com/app-generator/assets/assets/51070104/567987be-5875-4baa-bf9f-4b69be4f0a51)

## ✅ Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have `Docker` and `Docker Compose` installed on your system. 
Docker allows us to containerize our Django application, while Docker Compose helps manage multiple containers and their configurations. 

If you haven't installed Docker yet, you can find detailed installation instructions for your operating system on the [official Docker website](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

## ✅ Set up a Django project

> Coding Sample: https://github.com/app-generator/sample-django-docker-db-persistence

For this tutorial we will use the project provided above. If `git` isn't installed, run following command to install it.

```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

Then clone the project by running this command.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/app-generator/sample-django-docker-db-persistence
```

## ✅ Set up the Dockerfile

To containerize your Django application, you'll need a Dockerfile—a configuration file that defines the image's specifications. 
Our Dockerfile sets up a Python runtime environment, installs project dependencies, copies the code into the container, and configures the necessary port exposure. 

This ensures seamless execution of your Django application within a Docker container. Follow these steps:

1. Open your Django project and search a file called `Dockerfile` in your project's root directory.

2. If the `Dockerfile` doesn't exist, create one and add the following content, then save it.

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.9

# set environment variables
ENV PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE 1
ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED 1

WORKDIR /app

COPY requirements.txt .

# install python dependencies
RUN pip install --upgrade pip
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY . .
```

## ✅ Set up the Docker Compose

Docker Compose simplifies the management of multiple containers and their dependencies. 
In this step, we'll create a `docker-compose.yml` file to configure our Django application and the database. 

This will ensure that our database data persists even if the container is restarted.

1. Open `docker-compose.yml` file in your project's root directory.

2. If it doesn't exist, create one and add the following content.

```yml
version: '3.8'
services:
  appseed-app:
    container_name: appseed_app
    restart: always
    build: .
    networks:
      - db_network
      - web_network
    command: >
      sh -c "python manage.py makemigrations &&
            python manage.py migrate &&
            gunicorn --config gunicorn-cfg.py core.wsgi"
  nginx:
    container_name: nginx
    restart: always
    image: "nginx:latest"
    ports:
      - "5085:5085"
    volumes:
      - ./nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d
    networks:
      - web_network
    depends_on: 
      - appseed-app
networks:
  db_network:
    driver: bridge
  web_network:
    driver: bridge
```

3. Copy and paste the following content into the file.

   - **For PostgreSQL**

     ```yml
     services:
     ...
       db:
         image: postgres
         environment:
           POSTGRES_DB: ${DB_NAME}
           POSTGRES_USER: ${DB_USERNAME}
           POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASS}
         volumes:
           - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
         networks:
           - db_network
     ...
     volumes:
       postgres_data:
     ```

   - **For MySQL**

     ```yml
     services:
     ...
       db:
         image: mysql
         environment:
           MYSQL_DATABASE: ${DB_NAME}
           MYSQL_USER: ${DB_USERNAME}
           MYSQL_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASS}
           MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: ${DB_ROOT_PASS}
         volumes:
           - mysql_data:/var/lib/mysql
         networks:
           - db_network
     ...
     volumes:
       mysql_data:
     ```

   - **For SQLite**

     You need to add volume in the `appseed-app` service. The SQLite database will be stored as a file within the container.

     ```yml
     services:
       appseed-app:
         container_name: appseed_app
         restart: always
         build: .
         volumes:              # add these
           - ./data:/app/data  # lines
         networks:
           - db_network
           - web_network
     ```

4. Save the file. The complete `docker-compose.yml` file if you use PostgreSQL will look like this.

   ```yml
   version: '3.8'
   services:
     db:
       image: postgres
       environment:
         POSTGRES_DB: ${DB_NAME}
         POSTGRES_USER: ${DB_USERNAME}
         POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${DB_PASS}
       volumes:
         - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
       networks:
         - db_network
     appseed-app:
       container_name: appseed_app
       restart: always
       build: .
       networks:
         - db_network
         - web_network
       command: >
         sh -c "python manage.py makemigrations &&
                python manage.py migrate &&
                gunicorn --config gunicorn-cfg.py core.wsgi"
     nginx:
       container_name: nginx
       restart: always
       image: "nginx:latest"
       ports:
         - "5085:5085"
       volumes:
         - ./nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d
       networks:
         - web_network
       depends_on: 
         - appseed-app
   networks:
     db_network:
       driver: bridge
     web_network:
       driver: bridge
   volumes:
     postgres_data:
   ```

## ✅ Configure Django settings

To establish a connection between Django and the database container, we need to modify the environment variable.

1. Copy the `env.sample` file to `.env`.

   ```
   cp env.sample .env
   ```

2. If you are using SQLite as your database, you can skip the next step. Leave the database configuration commented out.

3. Open `.env` file using a text editor.

4. Remove comment from database variables and fill it by following your database configuration.

   - For PostgreSQL:

     ```
     DB_ENGINE=postgresql
     DB_HOST=db
     DB_NAME=your_db_name
     DB_USERNAME=user_name
     DB_PASS=your_password
     DB_PORT=5432
     ```

   - For MySQL:

     ```
     DB_ENGINE=mysql
     DB_HOST=db
     DB_NAME=your_db_name
     DB_USERNAME=user_name
     DB_PASS=your_password
     DB_ROOT_PASS=your_root_password
     DB_PORT=3306
     ```

5. Fill out the other variables as needed, then save the file.

6. Open `requirements.txt` file using a text editor.

7. Uncomment the package following the database you used by deleting the `#` in front of it.

   - `psycopg2-binary`: for PostgreSQL
   - `mysqlclient`: for MySQL

### SQLite Settings

If you are using SQLite as your database, you need to update your project settings by following these steps:

1. Open the `core/settings.py` file in your project.

2. Search for the database config and replace with this following code.

   ```python
   if DB_ENGINE and DB_NAME and DB_USERNAME:
       DATABASES = { 
         'default': {
           'ENGINE'  : 'django.db.backends.' + DB_ENGINE, 
           'NAME'    : DB_NAME,
           'USER'    : DB_USERNAME,
           'PASSWORD': DB_PASS,
           'HOST'    : DB_HOST,
           'PORT'    : DB_PORT,
           }, 
       }
   else:
       DATABASES = {
           'default': {
               'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
               'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'data', 'db.sqlite3'), # <-- NEW
           }
       }
   ```

Replace the line `'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3')` with `'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'data', 'db.sqlite3')`. 
This ensures that the SQLite database file will be stored in a folder named `data` with the filename `db.sqlite3`.

## ✅ Build and run the containers

We'll build and run our Docker containers using the Docker Compose file we created. 
This will start the Django development server and connect it to the `PostgreSQL` database container.

1. In your terminal, navigate to your project's root directory.

   ```bash
   cd ~/your/django/project
   ```

2. Run the following command to build and start the containers.

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

3. Docker Compose will create and configure the containers based on the specifications in the Compose file.

## ✅ Visit the app in Browser 

Once the containers are running, open your web browser and visit [http://localhost:5085](http://localhost:5085). 
You should see your Django application running. However, if this is your first time running the application, you'll need to create a superuser to log in and access the admin interface.

Here's a `step-by-step` guide to creating a superuser inside Docker:

1. Open a terminal and enter your Django container by running the following command:

   ```bash
   docker exec -it appseed_app bash
   ```

2. Once inside the container's shell, run the following command.

   ```bash
   python manage.py createsuperuser
   ```

After providing the necessary details, the superuser will be created successfully. You can now use these credentials to log in to your Django application and access the admin interface

<br />

## ✅ Resources 

- 👉 Access [AppSeed](https://appseed.us/) and start fast your next project
- 👉 [Deploy Projects on Aws, Azure and Digital Ocean](https://www.docs.deploypro.dev/) via **DeployPRO**
- 👉 Create an amazing landing page with [Simpllo, an open-source site builder](https://www.simpllo.com/)
- 👉 [Django App Generator](https://app-generator.dev/django/) - A 2nd generation App Builder
