docs/products/django-dashboards/adminator.mdx, before:

---
title:         Django Adminator - Open-Source Starter
sidebar_label: Django Adminator
---

# [Django Adminator](https://appseed.us/product/adminator/django/)

<SubHeading>Open-source Django Starter coded on top Adminator design.</SubHeading>

Django Admin Dashboard generated by the AppSeed platform on top of **Adminator** design, an iconic free dahsboard template.

:::info [**v1.0.3**](https://github.com/app-generator/django-adminator/releases) - release date `2022-06-11`
:::

- ✅ Built with [App Generator](https://appseed.us/generator/)
- ✅ UI Kit: `Adminator`, designed by `ColorLib`
- ✅ SQLite Database, Django Native ORM
- ✅ Session-Based Authentication, Forms validation
- ✅Deployment: Docker


## Environment

To use the starter, [Python3](https://www.python.org) should be installed properly in the workstation. 
If you are not sure if Python is installed, please open a terminal and type `python --version`. Here is the full list with dependencies and tools required to build the app:

- [Python3](https://www.python.org) - the programming language used to code the app
- [GIT](https://git-scm.com) - used to clone the source code from the Github repository
- Basic development tools (g++ compiler, python development libraries ..etc) used by Python to compile the app dependencies in your environment.
- (Optional) `Docker` - a popular virtualization software


## Start with `Docker`

> 👉 **Step 1** - Download the code from the GH repository (using `GIT`)

```bash
$ # Get the code
$ git clone https://github.com/app-generator/django-adminator.git
$ cd django-adminator
```

> 👉 **Step 2** - Start the APP in `Docker`

```bash
$ docker-compose up --build
```

Visit `http://localhost:5085` in your browser. The app should be up & running.


## Manual Build

> Download the code

```bash
$ # Get the code
$ git clone https://github.com/app-generator/django-adminator.git
$ cd django-adminator
```

### 👉 Set Up for `Unix`, `MacOS`

> Install modules via `VENV`

```bash
$ virtualenv env
$ source env/bin/activate
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

> Set Up Database

```bash
$ python manage.py makemigrations
$ python manage.py migrate
```

> Start the app

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver
```

At this point, the app runs at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.


### 👉 Set Up for `Windows`

> Install modules via `VENV` (windows)

```
$ virtualenv env
$ .\env\Scripts\activate
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

> Set Up Database

```bash
$ python manage.py makemigrations
$ python manage.py migrate
```

> Start the app

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver
```

At this point, the app runs at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.


## Manage App `Users`

By default, the starter is not provided with users. To access the private pages and the admin section (reserved for `superusers`) follow up the next sections.

### 👉 Create `Superusers`

To access the `admin` section, Django requires `superuser` privilegies. Let's create a new `superuser` and access the `admin` section of the project:

```bash
$ python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Once the `superuser` is successfully created, we can access the `admin` section:

`http://localhost:8000/admin/`


## Codebase structure

The project is coded using a simple and intuitive structure presented below:

```bash
< PROJECT ROOT >
   |
   |-- core/                           # Implements app configuration
   |    |-- settings.py                # Defines Global Settings
   |    |-- wsgi.py                    # Start the app in production
   |    |-- urls.py                    # Define URLs served by all apps/nodes
   |
   |-- apps/
   |    |
   |    |-- home/                      # A simple app that serve HTML files
   |    |    |-- views.py              # Serve HTML pages for authenticated users
   |    |    |-- urls.py               # Define some super simple routes
   |    |
   |    |-- authentication/            # Handles auth routes (login and register)
   |    |    |-- urls.py               # Define authentication routes
   |    |    |-- views.py              # Handles login and registration
   |    |    |-- forms.py              # Define auth forms (login and register)
   |    |
   |    |-- static/
   |    |    |-- <css, JS, images>     # CSS files, Javascripts files
   |    |
   |    |-- templates/                 # Templates used to render pages
   |         |-- includes/             # HTML chunks and components
   |         |    |-- navigation.html  # Top menu component
   |         |    |-- footer.html      # App Footer
   |         |    |-- scripts.html     # Scripts common to all pages
   |         |
   |         |-- layouts/              # Master pages
   |         |    |-- base.html        # Used by common pages
   |         |
   |         |-- accounts/             # Authentication pages
   |         |    |-- login.html       # Login page
   |         |    |-- register.html    # Register page
   |         |
   |         |-- home/                 # UI Kit Pages
   |              |-- index.html       # Index page
   |              |-- page-404.html    # 404 page
   |              |-- *.html           # All other pages
   |
   |-- requirements.txt                # Development modules - SQLite storage
   |
   |-- .env                            # Inject Configuration via Environment
   |-- manage.py                       # Start the app - Django default start script
   |
   |-- ************************************************************************
```


## UI Templates and Assets

The project comes with a modern UI fully migrated and usable with Django Template Engine.

### 👉 UI Templates

All pages and components are saved inside the `apps/templates` directory. Here are the standard directories:

- `templates/layouts`: UI masterpages
- `templates/includes`: UI components (used across multiple pages)
- `templates/accounts`: login & registration page
- `templates/home`: all other pages served via a generic routing by `apps/home` app

```bash
< PROJECT ROOT >
   |
   |-- core/                           # Implements app configuration
   |-- apps/
   |    |
   |    |-- home/                      # A simple app that serve HTML files
   |    |-- authentication/            # Handles auth routes (login and register)
   |    |
   |    |-- static/
   |    |    |-- <css, JS, images>     # CSS files, Javascripts files
   |    |
   |    |-- templates/                 # Templates used to render pages
   |         |-- includes/             # HTML chunks and components
   |         |    |-- navigation.html  # Top menu component
   |         |    |-- footer.html      # App Footer
   |         |    |-- scripts.html     # Scripts common to all pages
   |         |
   |         |-- layouts/              # Master pages
   |         |    |-- base.html        # Used by common pages
   |         |
   |         |-- accounts/             # Authentication pages
   |         |    |-- login.html       # Login page
   |         |    |-- register.html    # Register page
   |         |
   |         |-- home/                 # UI Kit Pages
   |              |-- index.html       # Index page
   |              |-- page-404.html    # 404 page
   |              |-- *.html           # All other pages
   |
   |-- ************************************************************************
```


### 👉 Static Assets

The static assets used by the project (`JS`, `CSS`, `images`) are saved inside the `apps/static/assets` folder. 
This path can be customized with ease via `ASSETS_ROOT` variable saved in the `.env` file.

> How it works

- `.env` defines the `ASSETS_ROOT` variable
- `core/settings.py` read the value of `ASSETS_ROOT` and defaults to `/static/assets` if not found:

```python
# content of core/settings.py (truncated content)

ASSETS_ROOT = os.getenv('ASSETS_ROOT', '/static/assets')
```

- All pages and components use the `ASSETS_ROOT` variable. Here is a sample extracted from `templates/layouts/base.html`:

```html
<head>
	<!-- Source Code -->
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ ASSETS_ROOT }}/css/style.css" />

	<!-- RUNTIME -->
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="/static/assets/css/style.css" />
</head>
```

At runtime, the `href` property is resolved to `/static/assets/css/style.css` based on the value saved in the `.env` file:

```
# No Slash at the end
ASSETS_ROOT=/static/assets
```


## Customisation

### 👉 Set up the MySql Database

**Note:** Make sure your Mysql server is properly installed and accessible.

> **Step 1** - Create the MySql Database to be used by the app

- `Create a new MySql` database
- `Create a new user` and assign full privilegies (read/write)

> **Step 2** - Install `mysqlclient` package

```bash
$ pip install mysqlclient
```

> **Step 3** - Edit the `.env` to match your MySql DB credentials. Make sure `DB_ENGINE` is set to `mysql`.

- `DB_ENGINE` : `mysql`
- `DB_NAME` : default value = `appseed_db`
- `DB_HOST` : default value = `localhost`
- `DB_PORT` : default value = `3306`
- `DB_USERNAME`: default value = `appseed_db_usr`
- `DB_PASS` : default value = `pass`


Here is a sample:

```
# .env sample

DB_ENGINE=mysql               # Database Driver
DB_NAME=appseed_flask         # Database Name
DB_USERNAME=appseed_flask_usr # Database User
DB_PASS=STRONG_PASS_HERE      # Password
DB_HOST=localhost             # Database HOST, default is localhost
DB_PORT=3306                  # MySql port, default = 3306
```

At this point, the app should use `MySql` for the persistence layer.


### 👉 Static Assets for `production`

As explained in the [Static Assets](adminator.mdx#static-assets) section, the assets are managed via:

- `apps/static/assets` - the folder where `JS`, `CSS`, and `images` files are saved
- `ASSETS_ROOT` - environment variable, that defaults to `/static/assets` if not defined

In production, the contents of the `apps/static/assets` files should be copied to an external (public) directory and the `ASSETS_ROOT` environment variable updated accordingly.

For instance, if the `static` files are copied to `https://cdn.your-server.com/adminator-assets`, the `.env` file should be updated as below:

```
# No Slash at the end
ASSETS_ROOT=https://cdn.your-server.com/adminator-assets
```

## 🚀 Where to go from here

- 👉 Access the [support](https://appseed.us/support/) page in case something is missing
- 👉 Use [Adminator Generator](https://appseed.us/generator/adminator/) to generate a new project
- 👉 Check-out the PREMIUM version, [Django Datta Able PRO](https://django-datta-able-pro.appseed-srv1.com/) (`live demo`) for more features and improved UI
  - ✅ `Bootstrap 5` version
  - ✅ More pages & components
  - ✅ `Dark-Mode`
  - ✅ `Dynamic API` feature
  - ✅ Priority on support
  - ✅ [Django Datta Able PRO](https://appseed.us/product/datta-able-pro/django/) - `product page`

![Datta Able PRO - Full-Stack Starter generated by AppSeed.](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/170474361-a58da82b-fff9-4a59-81a8-7ab99f478f48.png)

Commit message:

UPD, Adminator, Django Argon PRO

docs/products/django-dashboards/adminator.mdx, after:

---
title:         Django Adminator - Open-Source Starter
sidebar_label: Django Adminator
---

# [Django Adminator](https://appseed.us/product/adminator/django/)

<SubHeading>Open-source Django Starter coded on top Adminator design.</SubHeading>

Django Admin Dashboard generated by the AppSeed platform on top of **Adminator** design, an iconic free dahsboard template.
**[Adminator](https://appseed.us/product/adminator/django/)** is one of the best open-source admin dashboard & control panel theme. 
Built on top of Bootstrap, `Adminator` provides a range of responsive, reusable, and commonly used components. 

- 👉 [Adminator Django](https://appseed.us/product/adminator/django/) - `Product page`
- 👉 [Adminator Django](https://django-adminator.appseed-srv1.com) - `LIVE deployment`

:::info [**v1.0.3**](https://github.com/app-generator/django-adminator/releases) - release date `2022-06-11`
:::

- ✅ Built with [App Generator](https://appseed.us/generator/)
- ✅ UI Kit: `Adminator`, designed by `ColorLib`
- ✅ SQLite Database, Django Native ORM
- ✅ Session-Based Authentication, Forms validation
- ✅Deployment: Docker


## Environment

To use the starter, [Python3](https://www.python.org) should be installed properly in the workstation. 
If you are not sure if Python is installed, please open a terminal and type `python --version`. Here is the full list with dependencies and tools required to build the app:

- [Python3](https://www.python.org) - the programming language used to code the app
- [GIT](https://git-scm.com) - used to clone the source code from the Github repository
- Basic development tools (g++ compiler, python development libraries ..etc) used by Python to compile the app dependencies in your environment.
- (Optional) `Docker` - a popular virtualization software


## Start with `Docker`

> 👉 **Step 1** - Download the code from the GH repository (using `GIT`)

```bash
$ # Get the code
$ git clone https://github.com/app-generator/django-adminator.git
$ cd django-adminator
```

> 👉 **Step 2** - Start the APP in `Docker`

```bash
$ docker-compose up --build
```

Visit `http://localhost:5085` in your browser. The app should be up & running.


## Manual Build

> Download the code

```bash
$ # Get the code
$ git clone https://github.com/app-generator/django-adminator.git
$ cd django-adminator
```

### 👉 Set Up for `Unix`, `MacOS`

> Install modules via `VENV`

```bash
$ virtualenv env
$ source env/bin/activate
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

> Set Up Database

```bash
$ python manage.py makemigrations
$ python manage.py migrate
```

> Start the app

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver
```

At this point, the app runs at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.


### 👉 Set Up for `Windows`

> Install modules via `VENV` (windows)

```
$ virtualenv env
$ .\env\Scripts\activate
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

> Set Up Database

```bash
$ python manage.py makemigrations
$ python manage.py migrate
```

> Start the app

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver
```

At this point, the app runs at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.


## Manage App `Users`

By default, the starter is not provided with users. To access the private pages and the admin section (reserved for `superusers`) follow up the next sections.

### 👉 Create `Superusers`

To access the `admin` section, Django requires `superuser` privilegies. Let's create a new `superuser` and access the `admin` section of the project:

```bash
$ python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Once the `superuser` is successfully created, we can access the `admin` section:

`http://localhost:8000/admin/`


## Codebase structure

The project is coded using a simple and intuitive structure presented below:

```bash
< PROJECT ROOT >
   |
   |-- core/                           # Implements app configuration
   |    |-- settings.py                # Defines Global Settings
   |    |-- wsgi.py                    # Start the app in production
   |    |-- urls.py                    # Define URLs served by all apps/nodes
   |
   |-- apps/
   |    |
   |    |-- home/                      # A simple app that serve HTML files
   |    |    |-- views.py              # Serve HTML pages for authenticated users
   |    |    |-- urls.py               # Define some super simple routes
   |    |
   |    |-- authentication/            # Handles auth routes (login and register)
   |    |    |-- urls.py               # Define authentication routes
   |    |    |-- views.py              # Handles login and registration
   |    |    |-- forms.py              # Define auth forms (login and register)
   |    |
   |    |-- static/
   |    |    |-- <css, JS, images>     # CSS files, Javascripts files
   |    |
   |    |-- templates/                 # Templates used to render pages
   |         |-- includes/             # HTML chunks and components
   |         |    |-- navigation.html  # Top menu component
   |         |    |-- footer.html      # App Footer
   |         |    |-- scripts.html     # Scripts common to all pages
   |         |
   |         |-- layouts/              # Master pages
   |         |    |-- base.html        # Used by common pages
   |         |
   |         |-- accounts/             # Authentication pages
   |         |    |-- login.html       # Login page
   |         |    |-- register.html    # Register page
   |         |
   |         |-- home/                 # UI Kit Pages
   |              |-- index.html       # Index page
   |              |-- page-404.html    # 404 page
   |              |-- *.html           # All other pages
   |
   |-- requirements.txt                # Development modules - SQLite storage
   |
   |-- .env                            # Inject Configuration via Environment
   |-- manage.py                       # Start the app - Django default start script
   |
   |-- ************************************************************************
```


## UI Templates and Assets

The project comes with a modern UI fully migrated and usable with Django Template Engine.

### 👉 UI Templates

All pages and components are saved inside the `apps/templates` directory. Here are the standard directories:

- `templates/layouts`: UI masterpages
- `templates/includes`: UI components (used across multiple pages)
- `templates/accounts`: login & registration page
- `templates/home`: all other pages served via a generic routing by `apps/home` app

```bash
< PROJECT ROOT >
   |
   |-- core/                           # Implements app configuration
   |-- apps/
   |    |
   |    |-- home/                      # A simple app that serve HTML files
   |    |-- authentication/            # Handles auth routes (login and register)
   |    |
   |    |-- static/
   |    |    |-- <css, JS, images>     # CSS files, Javascripts files
   |    |
   |    |-- templates/                 # Templates used to render pages
   |         |-- includes/             # HTML chunks and components
   |         |    |-- navigation.html  # Top menu component
   |         |    |-- footer.html      # App Footer
   |         |    |-- scripts.html     # Scripts common to all pages
   |         |
   |         |-- layouts/              # Master pages
   |         |    |-- base.html        # Used by common pages
   |         |
   |         |-- accounts/             # Authentication pages
   |         |    |-- login.html       # Login page
   |         |    |-- register.html    # Register page
   |         |
   |         |-- home/                 # UI Kit Pages
   |              |-- index.html       # Index page
   |              |-- page-404.html    # 404 page
   |              |-- *.html           # All other pages
   |
   |-- ************************************************************************
```


### 👉 Static Assets

The static assets used by the project (`JS`, `CSS`, `images`) are saved inside the `apps/static/assets` folder. 
This path can be customized with ease via `ASSETS_ROOT` variable saved in the `.env` file.

> How it works

- `.env` defines the `ASSETS_ROOT` variable
- `core/settings.py` read the value of `ASSETS_ROOT` and defaults to `/static/assets` if not found:

```python
# content of core/settings.py (truncated content)

ASSETS_ROOT = os.getenv('ASSETS_ROOT', '/static/assets')
```

- All pages and components use the `ASSETS_ROOT` variable. Here is a sample extracted from `templates/layouts/base.html`:

```html
<head>
	<!-- Source Code -->
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ ASSETS_ROOT }}/css/style.css" />

	<!-- RUNTIME -->
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="/static/assets/css/style.css" />
</head>
```

At runtime, the `href` property is resolved to `/static/assets/css/style.css` based on the value saved in the `.env` file:

```
# No Slash at the end
ASSETS_ROOT=/static/assets
```


## Customisation

### 👉 Set up the MySql Database

**Note:** Make sure your Mysql server is properly installed and accessible.

> **Step 1** - Create the MySql Database to be used by the app

- `Create a new MySql` database
- `Create a new user` and assign full privilegies (read/write)

> **Step 2** - Install `mysqlclient` package

```bash
$ pip install mysqlclient
```

> **Step 3** - Edit the `.env` to match your MySql DB credentials. Make sure `DB_ENGINE` is set to `mysql`.

- `DB_ENGINE` : `mysql`
- `DB_NAME` : default value = `appseed_db`
- `DB_HOST` : default value = `localhost`
- `DB_PORT` : default value = `3306`
- `DB_USERNAME`: default value = `appseed_db_usr`
- `DB_PASS` : default value = `pass`


Here is a sample:

```
# .env sample

DB_ENGINE=mysql               # Database Driver
DB_NAME=appseed_flask         # Database Name
DB_USERNAME=appseed_flask_usr # Database User
DB_PASS=STRONG_PASS_HERE      # Password
DB_HOST=localhost             # Database HOST, default is localhost
DB_PORT=3306                  # MySql port, default = 3306
```

At this point, the app should use `MySql` for the persistence layer.


### 👉 Static Assets for `production`

As explained in the [Static Assets](adminator.mdx#static-assets) section, the assets are managed via:

- `apps/static/assets` - the folder where `JS`, `CSS`, and `images` files are saved
- `ASSETS_ROOT` - environment variable, that defaults to `/static/assets` if not defined

In production, the contents of the `apps/static/assets` files should be copied to an external (public) directory and the `ASSETS_ROOT` environment variable updated accordingly.

For instance, if the `static` files are copied to `https://cdn.your-server.com/adminator-assets`, the `.env` file should be updated as below:

```
# No Slash at the end
ASSETS_ROOT=https://cdn.your-server.com/adminator-assets
```

## 🚀 Where to go from here

- 👉 Access the [support](https://appseed.us/support/) page in case something is missing
- 👉 Use [Adminator Generator](https://appseed.us/generator/adminator/) to generate a new project
- 👉 Check-out the PREMIUM version, [Django Datta Able PRO](https://django-datta-able-pro.appseed-srv1.com/) (`live demo`) for more features and improved UI
  - ✅ `Bootstrap 5` version
  - ✅ More pages & components
  - ✅ `Dark-Mode`
  - ✅ `Dynamic API` feature
  - ✅ Priority on support
  - ✅ [Django Datta Able PRO](https://appseed.us/product/datta-able-pro/django/) - `product page`

![Datta Able PRO - Full-Stack Starter generated by AppSeed.](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/170474361-a58da82b-fff9-4a59-81a8-7ab99f478f48.png)
