docs/content/how-to-fix/importerror-cannot-import-name-safe_str_cmp-from-werkzeug.security.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  This page explains How to Fix ImportError: cannot import name 'safe_str_cmp'
  from 'werkzeug.security'
---

# ImportError: cannot import name 'safe_str_cmp' from 'werkzeug.security'

[Werkzeug](https://werkzeug.palletsprojects.com/en/2.1.x/), the core dependency of **Flask**, is a comprehensive [WSGI](https://wsgi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) web application library. Version **v2.1.0** deprecates a few helpers, including `safe_str_cmp.` Here is the update history:

**v2.0.0**

> `pbkdf2_hex`, `pbkdf2_bin`, and `safe_str_cmp` are deprecated. `hashlib` and `hmac` provide equivalents.

**v2.1.0**&#x20;

> Remove the `pbkdf2_hex`, `pbkdf2_bin`, and `safe_str_cmp` functions. Use equivalents in `hashlib` and `hmac` modules instead.

### How to Fix

Freeze the `Werkzeug` to the latest stable version prior to v2.1.0. The recommended version is **Werkzeug==2.0.3.**&#x20;

### Sample Project

To see this hot fix in action, feel free to check this sample project saved on Github (MIT License)

> [Flask Datta Able](https://appseed.us/admin-dashboards/flask-datta-able) - open-source Flask Starter generated by AppSeed

- 👉 [Datta Able Flask](https://github.com/app-generator/flask-datta-able) - Source Code
- 👉 [Datta Able Flask](https://flask-datta-able.appseed-srv1.com/) - LIVE deployment

![Flask Datta Able - Open-Source Seed Project](../../../static/assets/datta-able-mobile-view.jpg)

Commit message:

full migration of docs from gitbook to docusourus

docs/content/how-to-fix/importerror-cannot-import-name-safe_str_cmp-from-werkzeug.security.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: >-
  This page explains How to Fix ImportError: cannot import name 'safe_str_cmp'
  from 'werkzeug.security'
---

# ImportError: cannot import name 'safe_str_cmp' from 'werkzeug.security'

<SubHeading>This page explains How to Fix ImportError: cannot import name 'safe_str_cmp' from 'werkzeug.security'</SubHeading>

[Werkzeug](https://werkzeug.palletsprojects.com/en/2.1.x/), the core dependency of **Flask**, is a comprehensive [WSGI](https://wsgi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) web application library. Version **v2.1.0** deprecates a few helpers, including `safe_str_cmp.` Here is the update history:

**v2.0.0**

> `pbkdf2_hex`, `pbkdf2_bin`, and `safe_str_cmp` are deprecated. `hashlib` and `hmac` provide equivalents.

**v2.1.0**&#x20;

> Remove the `pbkdf2_hex`, `pbkdf2_bin`, and `safe_str_cmp` functions. Use equivalents in `hashlib` and `hmac` modules instead.

### How to Fix

Freeze the `Werkzeug` to the latest stable version prior to v2.1.0. The recommended version is **Werkzeug==2.0.3.**&#x20;

### Sample Project

To see this hot fix in action, feel free to check this sample project saved on Github (MIT License)

> [Flask Datta Able](https://appseed.us/admin-dashboards/flask-datta-able) - open-source Flask Starter generated by AppSeed

- 👉 [Datta Able Flask](https://github.com/app-generator/flask-datta-able) - Source Code
- 👉 [Datta Able Flask](https://flask-datta-able.appseed-srv1.com/) - LIVE deployment

![Flask Datta Able - Open-Source Seed Project](../../../static/assets/datta-able-mobile-view.jpg)
