docs/introduction.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Get Started - Code Faster your Projects
sidebar_label: Introduction
slug: /introduction
description: The official documentation of the service.
---

# AppSeed 

import SubHeading from "@site/src/components/SubHeading";
import SupportPricing from "@site/src/components/SupportPricing";
<SubHeading color="#25c2a0">The official documentation of the service.</SubHeading>;

> **Research and Innovation-oriented StartUp** for developers - `Read more` about the [team](https://appseed.us/about/) and service [terms](https://appseed.us/terms/).

![AppSeed - Automation platform for developers.](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/204030603-db09a5f3-41ef-4cc4-8564-07abb9a64f53.png)

## [About](https://appseed.us/about/)

**AppSeed** is a platform that uses in-house developed automation tools to cut the manual work usually involved in web development.

The **[App Generator](https://appseed.us)** is an automated workflow that consumes flat, lifeless UI Kits and builds starters in different patterns and languages: MVC, two-tier architecture, full-stack,SPA ..etc.

> 👉 Read the [full story](https://medium.com/@appseed.us/appseed-2019-status-and-further-steps-7517dab886d4) published on `Medium`

The product is `self-funded`, mainly `driven` by **open-source** and **comunity members** connected to the service via diferrent funnels (`Email`, `Newletter`) and [Discord](https://discord.gg/fZC6hup) (1k+ members).

 ## `Services` and [Products](https://appseed.us/admin-dashboards/open-source/)

- 🚀 **[PRO Accounts](https://appseed.us/terms/)** via `$49/yr` (annual subscription)
  - **30%OFF** applicable to `all products` & licenses
  - **24/7** fast support via Email and `Discord`
  - **Private Access** to all internal [tools](https://appseed.us/developer-tools/): [OpenAPI Editor](https://appseed.us/generator/openapi/), parsers and `generators`.
- 🎁 Permanent [Discounts](https://appseed.us/discounts/): `Black PRO`, `Argon BS4 PRO`, `Gradient Able`
- ✅ [App Generator](https://appseed.us/generator/) - build full-stack apps (`free service`)
- ✅ [OpenApi](https://appseed.us/generator/openapi/) - in-browser editor (`free service`)
- ✅ [Developer tools](https://appseed.us/developer-tools/): `Dynamic Services` and [API generators](https://appseed.us/developer-tools/django-dynamic-api/)
- ✅ Pre-Built [admin dashboards](https://appseed.us/admin-dashboards/open-source/) - `free` & `paid` 
- ✅ [Free Apps](https://appseed.us/apps/free/) of `Flask`, `Django`, [React](https://appseed.us/apps/react/) and `FastAPI` 
- ⚙️ Two tiers [Support](https://appseed.us/support/):
  - `Free`: monday-friday, Email & Discord, 10-18 EET
  - `PRO`: **24/7** fast support 🚀, [PRO accounts](https://appseed.us/terms/) ONLY

Commit message:

Release v1.0.8 - Added Spring Boost Campaign

docs/introduction.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Get Started - Code Faster your Projects
sidebar_label: Introduction
slug: /introduction
description: The official documentation of the service.
---

# AppSeed 

import SubHeading from "@site/src/components/SubHeading";
import SupportPricing from "@site/src/components/SupportPricing";
<SubHeading color="#25c2a0">The official documentation of the service.</SubHeading>;

> **Research and Innovation-oriented StartUp** for developers - `Read more` about the [team](https://appseed.us/about/) and service [terms](https://appseed.us/terms/).

![AppSeed - Automation platform for developers.](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/204030603-db09a5f3-41ef-4cc4-8564-07abb9a64f53.png)


## 🚀 `PROMO` [Spring Boost Campaign](https://appseed.us/discounts/) `50%OFF`

> The **discount is applicable to all products and licenses** (no stock limits) until `15.MAR`

[![Spring Boost Campaign](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51070104/221118889-171c5afc-4d01-402b-8681-61b37338e26c.png)](https://appseed.us/discounts/)


## [About](https://appseed.us/about/)

**AppSeed** is a platform that uses in-house developed automation tools to cut the manual work usually involved in web development.

The **[App Generator](https://appseed.us)** is an automated workflow that consumes flat, lifeless UI Kits and builds starters in different patterns and languages: MVC, two-tier architecture, full-stack,SPA ..etc.

> 👉 Read the [full story](https://medium.com/@appseed.us/appseed-2019-status-and-further-steps-7517dab886d4) published on `Medium`

The product is `self-funded`, mainly `driven` by **open-source** and **comunity members** connected to the service via diferrent funnels (`Email`, `Newletter`) and [Discord](https://discord.gg/fZC6hup) (1k+ members).

 ## `Services` and [Products](https://appseed.us/admin-dashboards/open-source/)

- 🚀 **[PRO Accounts](https://appseed.us/terms/)** via `$49/yr` (annual subscription)
  - **30%OFF** applicable to `all products` & licenses
  - **24/7** fast support via Email and `Discord`
  - **Private Access** to all internal [tools](https://appseed.us/developer-tools/): [OpenAPI Editor](https://appseed.us/generator/openapi/), parsers and `generators`.
- 🎁 Permanent [Discounts](https://appseed.us/discounts/): `Black PRO`, `Argon BS4 PRO`, `Gradient Able`
- ✅ [App Generator](https://appseed.us/generator/) - build full-stack apps (`free service`)
- ✅ [OpenApi](https://appseed.us/generator/openapi/) - in-browser editor (`free service`)
- ✅ [Developer tools](https://appseed.us/developer-tools/): `Dynamic Services` and [API generators](https://appseed.us/developer-tools/django-dynamic-api/)
- ✅ Pre-Built [admin dashboards](https://appseed.us/admin-dashboards/open-source/) - `free` & `paid` 
- ✅ [Free Apps](https://appseed.us/apps/free/) of `Flask`, `Django`, [React](https://appseed.us/apps/react/) and `FastAPI` 
- ⚙️ Two tiers [Support](https://appseed.us/support/):
  - `Free`: monday-friday, Email & Discord, 10-18 EET
  - `PRO`: **24/7** fast support 🚀, [PRO accounts](https://appseed.us/terms/) ONLY
